docs/source/contents/metrics/index.md, before:

# Metrics

While the system is running we collect metrics via prometheus that allow users to observe differnet aspects of SCv2
with regards to throughout, latency, memory, cpu etc.

This is in addition to the standard kubernetes like metrics that are scraped by prometheus.

There is a grafana dashboard (referenced below) that provides an overview of the system.

## List of SCv2 metrics

The list of SCv2 metrics that we are compiling is:

  ```{literalinclude} ../../../../scheduler/pkg/metrics/prometheus.go
   :language: golang
   :start-after: // start list of metrics 
   :end-before: // end list of metrics 
   ```

Many of these metrics are model level counters and gauges. We also aggregate some of these metrics to speed up the display of graphs.

This is experimental and these metrics are bound to change to reflect the trends we want to capture as we get more information about the usage of the system.

## Grafana dashboard

We have a prebuilt grafana dashboard that makes use of many of the metrics that we expose.

![kafka](dashboard.png)

### Installation

Download the dashboard from [SCv2 dashboard](https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core-v2/blob/master/prometheus/dashboards/Seldon%20Core%20Model%20Mesh%20Monitoring.json) and import it in grafana, making sure that the data source is pointing to the correct prometheus store. Find more information on how to import the dashboard [here](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/export-import/)

Commit message:

Allow model scaling, k6 constant throughput tests and Prometheus/Grafana in Docker Compose install (#262)
* small update to docs

* Add prometheus to docker compose

* add constant rate k7 test and scale replicas for model setting

* test on k8s

* allow grpc in constant rate tests

* review comments

docs/source/contents/metrics/index.md, after:

# Metrics

While the system is running we collect metrics via prometheus that allow users to observe differnet aspects of SCv2
with regards to throughout, latency, memory, cpu etc.

This is in addition to the standard kubernetes like metrics that are scraped by prometheus.

There is a grafana dashboard (referenced below) that provides an overview of the system.

## List of SCv2 metrics

The list of SCv2 metrics that we are compiling is:

  ```{literalinclude} ../../../../scheduler/pkg/metrics/prometheus.go
   :language: golang
   :start-after: // start list of metrics 
   :end-before: // end list of metrics 
   ```

Many of these metrics are model level counters and gauges. We also aggregate some of these metrics to speed up the display of graphs.

This is experimental and these metrics are bound to change to reflect the trends we want to capture as we get more information about the usage of the system.

## Grafana dashboard

We have a prebuilt grafana dashboard that makes use of many of the metrics that we expose.

![kafka](dashboard.png)

### Local Use

Grafana and Prometheus are available when you run Seldon locally. You will be able to connect to the Grafana dashboard at `http://localhost:3000`. Prometheus will be available at `http://localhost:9090`.

### Kubernetes Installation

Download the dashboard from [SCv2 dashboard](https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core-v2/blob/master/prometheus/dashboards/Seldon%20Core%20Model%20Mesh%20Monitoring.json) and import it in grafana, making sure that the data source is pointing to the correct prometheus store. Find more information on how to import the dashboard [here](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/export-import/)
