doc/source/workflow/install.md, before:

# Install Seldon-Core

## Pre-requisites:
* Kubernetes cluster version equal or higher than 1.12
    * For Openshift it requires version 4.2 or higher
* Installer method
    * Helm version equal or higher than 3.0
    * Kustomize version equal or higher than 0.1.0
* Ingress
    * Istio ( sample installation using Istio 1.5 can be found at https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core/tree/master/examples/auth )
    * Ambassador

### Running older versions of Seldon Core? 

Make sure you read the ["Upgrading Seldon Core Guide"](../reference/upgrading.md)

* **Seldon Core will stop supporting versions prior to 1.0 so make sure you upgrade.** 
* If you are running an older version of Seldon Core, and will be upgading it please make sure you read the [Upgrading Seldon Core docs](../reference/upgrading.md) to understand breaking changes and best practices for upgrading.
* Please see [Migrating from Helm v2 to Helm v3](https://helm.sh/blog/migrate-from-helm-v2-to-helm-v3/) if you are already running Seldon Core using Helm v2 and wish to upgrade.


## Install Seldon Core with Helm 

First [install Helm 3.x](https://docs.helm.sh/docs/intro/install/). When helm is installed you can deploy the seldon controller to manage your Seldon Deployment graphs.

If you want to provide advanced parameters with your installation you can check the full [Seldon Core Helm Chart Reference](../reference/helm.html).

The namespace `seldon-system` is preferred, so we can create it:

```bash
kubectl create namespace seldon-system
```

Now we can install Seldon Core in the `seldon-system` namespace.

```bash
helm install seldon-core seldon-core-operator \
    --repo https://storage.googleapis.com/seldon-charts \
    --set usageMetrics.enabled=true \
    --namespace seldon-system
```

Make sure you install it with the relevant ingress (`ambassador.enabled` or `istio.enabled`) so you are able to send requests (instructions below).

### Install a specific version

In order to install a specific version you can do so by running the same command above with the `--version` flag, followed by the version you want to run.

### Install a SNAPSHOT version 

Whenever a new PR was merged to master, we have set up our CI to build a "SNAPSHOT" version, which would contain the Docker images for that specific development / master-branch code. Whilst the images are pushed under SNAPSHOT, they also create a new "dated" SNAPSHOT version entry, which pushes images with the tag `"<next-version>-SNAPSHOT_<timestamp>"`. A new branch is also created with the name `"v<next-version>-SNAPSHOT_<timestamp>"`, which contains the respective helm charts, and allows for the specific version (as outlined by the version in `version.txt`) to be installed.

This means that you can try out a dev version of master if you want to try a specific feature before it's released. 

For this you would be able to clone the repository, and then checkout the relevant SNAPSHOT branch.

Once you have done that you can install seldon-core using the following command:

```bash
helm install helm-charts/seldon-core-operator seldon-core-operator
```

In this case `helm-charts/seldon-core-operator` is the folder within the repository that contains the charts.


### Install with cert-manager

You can follow [the cert manager documentation to install it](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/kubernetes/).

You can then install seldon-core with:

```bash 
helm install seldon-core seldon-core-operator \
    --repo https://storage.googleapis.com/seldon-charts \
    --set usageMetrics.enabled=true \
    --namespace seldon-system \
    --set certManager.enabled=true
```

## Ingress Support

For particular ingresses that we support, you can inform the controller it should activate processing for them.

 * Ambassador
   * add `--set ambassador.enabled=true` : The controller will add annotations to services it creates so Ambassador can pick them up and wire an endpoint for your deployments.
   * For full instructions on installation with Ambassador read the [Ingress with Ambassador](../ingress/ambassador.md) page.
 * Istio Gateway
   * add `--set istio.enabled=true` : The controller will create virtual services and destination rules to wire up endpoints in your istio ingress gateway.
   * For full instructions on installation with Istio read the [Ingress with Istio](../ingress/istio.md) page.


## Seldon Core Kustomize Install 

The [Kustomize](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize) installation can be found in the `/operator/config` folder of the repo. You should copy this template to your own kustomize location for editing.

To use the template directly, there is a Makefile which has a set of useful commands:

For kubernetes clusters of version higher than 1.15, make sure you [comment the patch_object_selector here](https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core/blob/master/operator/config/webhook/kustomization.yaml#L8).

Install cert-manager

```bash
make install-cert-manager
```

Install Seldon using cert-manager to provide certificates.

```bash
make deploy
```

Install Seldon with provided certificates in `config/cert/`

```bash
make deploy-cert
```


## Other Options

### Install Production Integrations

Now that you have Seldon Core installed, you can set it up with:

#### Install with Kubeflow

  * [Install Seldon as part of Kubeflow.](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/guides/components/seldon/#seldon-serving)

#### GCP MarketPlace

If you have a Google Cloud Platform account you can install via the [GCP Marketplace](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/details/seldon-portal/seldon-core).

#### OpenShift

You can install Seldon Core via OperatorHub on the OpenShift console UI.

#### OperatorHub

You can install Seldon Core from [Operator Hub](https://operatorhub.io/operator/seldon-operator).

## Upgrading from Previous Versions

See our [upgrading notes](../reference/upgrading.md)

## Advanced Usage

### Install Seldon Core in a single namespace (version >=1.0)

**You will need a k8s cluster >= 1.15**

#### Helm

You can install the Seldon Core Operator so it only manages resources in its namespace. An example to install in a namespace `seldon-ns1` is shown below:

```bash
kubectl create namespace seldon-ns1
kubectl label namespace seldon-ns1 seldon.io/controller-id=seldon-ns1
```

We label the namespace with `seldon.io/controller-id=<namespace>` to ensure if there is a clusterwide Seldon Core Operator that it should ignore resources for this namespace.

Install the Operator into the namespace:

```bash
helm install seldon-namespaced seldon-core-operator  --repo https://storage.googleapis.com/seldon-charts  \
    --set singleNamespace=true \
    --set image.pullPolicy=IfNotPresent \
    --set usageMetrics.enabled=false \
    --set crd.create=true \
    --namespace seldon-ns1
```

We set `crd.create=true` to create the CRD. If you are installing a Seldon Core Operator after you have installed a previous Seldon Core Operator on the same cluster you will need to set `crd.create=false`.


#### Kustomize

An example install is provided in the Makefile in the Operator folder:

```bash
make deploy-namespaced1
```

See the [multiple server example notebook](../examples/multiple_operators.html).

### Label focused Seldon Core Operator (version >=1.0)

**You will need a k8s cluster >= 1.15**

You can install the Seldon Core Operator so it manages only SeldonDeployments with the label `seldon.io/controller-id` where the value of the label matches the controller-id of the running operator. An example for a namespace `seldon-id1` is shown below:

#### Helm

```bash
kubectl create namespace seldon-id1
```

To install the Operator run:


```bash
helm install seldon-controllerid seldon-core-operator  --repo https://storage.googleapis.com/seldon-charts  \
    --set singleNamespace=false \
    --set image.pullPolicy=IfNotPresent \
    --set usageMetrics.enabled=false \
    --set crd.create=true \
    --set controllerId=seldon-id1 \
    --namespace seldon-id1
```

We set `crd.create=true` to create the CRD. If you are installing a Seldon Core Operator after you have installed a previous Seldon Core Operator on the same cluster you will need to set `crd.create=false`.

For kustomize you will need to [uncomment the patch_object_selector here](https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core/blob/master/operator/config/webhook/kustomization.yaml)

#### Kustomize

An example install is provided in the Makefile in the Operator folder:

```bash
make deploy-controllerid
```

See the [multiple server example notebook](../examples/multiple_operators.html).

Commit message:

Added doc hint for install behind proxy

doc/source/workflow/install.md, after:

# Install Seldon-Core

## Pre-requisites:
* Kubernetes cluster version equal or higher than 1.12
    * For Openshift it requires version 4.2 or higher
* Installer method
    * Helm version equal or higher than 3.0
    * Kustomize version equal or higher than 0.1.0
* Ingress
    * Istio ( sample installation using Istio 1.5 can be found at https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core/tree/master/examples/auth )
    * Ambassador

### Running older versions of Seldon Core? 

Make sure you read the ["Upgrading Seldon Core Guide"](../reference/upgrading.md)

* **Seldon Core will stop supporting versions prior to 1.0 so make sure you upgrade.** 
* If you are running an older version of Seldon Core, and will be upgading it please make sure you read the [Upgrading Seldon Core docs](../reference/upgrading.md) to understand breaking changes and best practices for upgrading.
* Please see [Migrating from Helm v2 to Helm v3](https://helm.sh/blog/migrate-from-helm-v2-to-helm-v3/) if you are already running Seldon Core using Helm v2 and wish to upgrade.


## Install Seldon Core with Helm 

First [install Helm 3.x](https://docs.helm.sh/docs/intro/install/). When helm is installed you can deploy the seldon controller to manage your Seldon Deployment graphs.

If you want to provide advanced parameters with your installation you can check the full [Seldon Core Helm Chart Reference](../reference/helm.html).

The namespace `seldon-system` is preferred, so we can create it:

```bash
kubectl create namespace seldon-system
```

Now we can install Seldon Core in the `seldon-system` namespace.

```bash
helm install seldon-core seldon-core-operator \
    --repo https://storage.googleapis.com/seldon-charts \
    --set usageMetrics.enabled=true \
    --namespace seldon-system
```

Make sure you install it with the relevant ingress (`ambassador.enabled` or `istio.enabled`) so you are able to send requests (instructions below).

### Install a specific version

In order to install a specific version you can do so by running the same command above with the `--version` flag, followed by the version you want to run.

### Install a SNAPSHOT version 

Whenever a new PR was merged to master, we have set up our CI to build a "SNAPSHOT" version, which would contain the Docker images for that specific development / master-branch code. Whilst the images are pushed under SNAPSHOT, they also create a new "dated" SNAPSHOT version entry, which pushes images with the tag `"<next-version>-SNAPSHOT_<timestamp>"`. A new branch is also created with the name `"v<next-version>-SNAPSHOT_<timestamp>"`, which contains the respective helm charts, and allows for the specific version (as outlined by the version in `version.txt`) to be installed.

This means that you can try out a dev version of master if you want to try a specific feature before it's released. 

For this you would be able to clone the repository, and then checkout the relevant SNAPSHOT branch.

Once you have done that you can install seldon-core using the following command:

```bash
helm install helm-charts/seldon-core-operator seldon-core-operator
```

In this case `helm-charts/seldon-core-operator` is the folder within the repository that contains the charts.


### Install with cert-manager

You can follow [the cert manager documentation to install it](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/kubernetes/).

You can then install seldon-core with:

```bash 
helm install seldon-core seldon-core-operator \
    --repo https://storage.googleapis.com/seldon-charts \
    --set usageMetrics.enabled=true \
    --namespace seldon-system \
    --set certManager.enabled=true
```

### Install behind a proxy

When your kubernetes cluster is behind a proxy, the `kube-apiserver` typically inherits the system proxy variables. This can block the `kube-apiserver` from reaching the webhooks needed to create Seldon resources.

You could see this error:

```bash
Internal error occurred: failed calling webhook "v1.vseldondeployment.kb.io": Post https://seldon-webhook-service.seldon-system.svc:443/validate-machinelearning-seldon-io-v1-seldondeployment?timeout=30s: Service Unavailable
```

To fix this, ensure the `no_proxy` environment variable for the `kube-apiserver` includes `.svc,.svc.cluster.local`.  See [this Github Issue Comment](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/issues/2640#issuecomment-601872165) for reference. As described there, the error could also occur for the `cert-manager-webhook`.

## Ingress Support

For particular ingresses that we support, you can inform the controller it should activate processing for them.

 * Ambassador
   * add `--set ambassador.enabled=true` : The controller will add annotations to services it creates so Ambassador can pick them up and wire an endpoint for your deployments.
   * For full instructions on installation with Ambassador read the [Ingress with Ambassador](../ingress/ambassador.md) page.
 * Istio Gateway
   * add `--set istio.enabled=true` : The controller will create virtual services and destination rules to wire up endpoints in your istio ingress gateway.
   * For full instructions on installation with Istio read the [Ingress with Istio](../ingress/istio.md) page.


## Seldon Core Kustomize Install 

The [Kustomize](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize) installation can be found in the `/operator/config` folder of the repo. You should copy this template to your own kustomize location for editing.

To use the template directly, there is a Makefile which has a set of useful commands:

For kubernetes clusters of version higher than 1.15, make sure you [comment the patch_object_selector here](https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core/blob/master/operator/config/webhook/kustomization.yaml#L8).

Install cert-manager

```bash
make install-cert-manager
```

Install Seldon using cert-manager to provide certificates.

```bash
make deploy
```

Install Seldon with provided certificates in `config/cert/`

```bash
make deploy-cert
```


## Other Options

### Install Production Integrations

Now that you have Seldon Core installed, you can set it up with:

#### Install with Kubeflow

  * [Install Seldon as part of Kubeflow.](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/guides/components/seldon/#seldon-serving)

#### GCP MarketPlace

If you have a Google Cloud Platform account you can install via the [GCP Marketplace](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/details/seldon-portal/seldon-core).

#### OpenShift

You can install Seldon Core via OperatorHub on the OpenShift console UI.

#### OperatorHub

You can install Seldon Core from [Operator Hub](https://operatorhub.io/operator/seldon-operator).

## Upgrading from Previous Versions

See our [upgrading notes](../reference/upgrading.md)

## Advanced Usage

### Install Seldon Core in a single namespace (version >=1.0)

**You will need a k8s cluster >= 1.15**

#### Helm

You can install the Seldon Core Operator so it only manages resources in its namespace. An example to install in a namespace `seldon-ns1` is shown below:

```bash
kubectl create namespace seldon-ns1
kubectl label namespace seldon-ns1 seldon.io/controller-id=seldon-ns1
```

We label the namespace with `seldon.io/controller-id=<namespace>` to ensure if there is a clusterwide Seldon Core Operator that it should ignore resources for this namespace.

Install the Operator into the namespace:

```bash
helm install seldon-namespaced seldon-core-operator  --repo https://storage.googleapis.com/seldon-charts  \
    --set singleNamespace=true \
    --set image.pullPolicy=IfNotPresent \
    --set usageMetrics.enabled=false \
    --set crd.create=true \
    --namespace seldon-ns1
```

We set `crd.create=true` to create the CRD. If you are installing a Seldon Core Operator after you have installed a previous Seldon Core Operator on the same cluster you will need to set `crd.create=false`.


#### Kustomize

An example install is provided in the Makefile in the Operator folder:

```bash
make deploy-namespaced1
```

See the [multiple server example notebook](../examples/multiple_operators.html).

### Label focused Seldon Core Operator (version >=1.0)

**You will need a k8s cluster >= 1.15**

You can install the Seldon Core Operator so it manages only SeldonDeployments with the label `seldon.io/controller-id` where the value of the label matches the controller-id of the running operator. An example for a namespace `seldon-id1` is shown below:

#### Helm

```bash
kubectl create namespace seldon-id1
```

To install the Operator run:


```bash
helm install seldon-controllerid seldon-core-operator  --repo https://storage.googleapis.com/seldon-charts  \
    --set singleNamespace=false \
    --set image.pullPolicy=IfNotPresent \
    --set usageMetrics.enabled=false \
    --set crd.create=true \
    --set controllerId=seldon-id1 \
    --namespace seldon-id1
```

We set `crd.create=true` to create the CRD. If you are installing a Seldon Core Operator after you have installed a previous Seldon Core Operator on the same cluster you will need to set `crd.create=false`.

For kustomize you will need to [uncomment the patch_object_selector here](https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core/blob/master/operator/config/webhook/kustomization.yaml)

#### Kustomize

An example install is provided in the Makefile in the Operator folder:

```bash
make deploy-controllerid
```

See the [multiple server example notebook](../examples/multiple_operators.html).
